I am in grade 5 and live in California. We are a family of four members. My father is an architect and my mother is a teacher. I have two siblings who are older than me.  I am someone who is an extremely shy and quiet person. This often makes people misunderstand that I cannot speak confidently. But, it is not true as I have immense knowledge on different things. However, I like to assess the place and situation before speaking. When someone approaches me, I would like to be humble and kind enough to answer their questions. 
Most importantly, I’m comfortable with people whom I know, so that the information being conveyed will be interpreted easily. While studying or participating in any activities, I try to focus so that my concentration is towards the things that I’m doing. My hobbies are basically reading, drawing, singing, playing sports, and many more things that fascinate me. I try to give my best in all the activities that I participate in. Moreover, I believe that all the activities require complete focus and dedication in order to gain knowledge and develop essential skills. I dislike or have fear of certain things like slimy creatures, cockroaches, and heights. But, my focus is also towards overcoming these fears. 
I have a lot of belief in dreaming big and setting goals for myself. There are many things that I would like to achieve and do systematically in life. It includes taking care of my parents, siblings, and people around me. The most important thing is to dedicate myself to the service of others. There is nothing more satisfying than helping others. Therefore, I have to educate myself really well on things that I want to do. Apart from this, I am keen on learning new things each and every day. While learning, I pay attention to developing important skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving, decision making, analytical and communication skills. Moreover, I’m very punctual and like to do things on time. 
I am extremely friendly to all the people around me which makes me a happy person. There is a sense of happiness in spending time with friends. This also gives an opportunity to be part of their lives. We all hang out together and eat delicious food prepared at home or sometimes visit restaurants. Occasionally, we go for a picnic or tour with friends and family members. I am fortunate enough to see beautiful places and learn new things from there. Besides this, I like to do crafts activities at home. This will enhance my creativity and imagination to do something better. 
Hence, the who am I essay is extremely beneficial in extracting the areas that you are interested in. Sometimes, we might not express all this information when you try to communicate with others. This also gives an opportunity to explore your likes and dislikes. 